# Files and Folders

The most commonly used items on your computer are files and folders. Any file or folder can be selected as an object in Quicksilver. As I write this manual, the file is called Quicksilver.pages and it’s on my Desktop. Since my Desktop is in the catalog I can select it in the first pane by just typing its name. As I type `Qui` it appears with the default action of **Open**. If I type return, Pages will open the file. I can select the Desktop itself by typing `Desktop` (or as much of it as I need to match it) and since it’s really a folder, the default action is **Open**.

Quicksilver isn’t limited to only what’s in the catalog. If a folder is in the object pane, use <kbd>→</kbd>  to  navigate into it. Then the object pane changes to a results list of all the child files and folders. Since it’s common to separate folders with / it’s an equivalent key to <kbd>→</kbd> to navigate. Hold down the <kbd>⌥</kbd> key when navigating to make the results list include hidden files (those that begin with a period). This also enables browsing into packages (like the Finder’s Show Package Contents command). 

Quicksilver also understands the tilde (<kbd>~</kbd>) as the Unix shortcut for the home directory. Since the Desktop is just a folder in the home directory I could navigate to this manual’s file (at `~/Desktop/Quicksilver.pages`) by typing <kbd>~/De/Qui</kbd>. Quicksilver also interprets a backquote (<kbd>`</kbd>) as a tilde (on US keyboards the tilde is a shifted backquote). Back up a folder hierarchy by typing <kbd>←</kbd> or <kbd>?</kbd> (i.e., a shifted / on a US keyboard). This can backup all the way to the root directory. Type <kbd>/</kbd> and hold it down for a second to select the root directory. Disks are also included in the catalog so type their name to select them. As of B55 Quicksilver has some problems with folders with periods in their name. If you are experiencing problems try removing the period.

Several different folders are listed in the the catalog by default to find files. Under the User set are catalog sources for the Home, Documents and Desktop folders. Under Dock are sources for Dock Files & Folders and under Recent Items is a source for Recent Documents, Favorites and Recent Folders (Open & Save). 

Since there are probably a lot of files on the machine, to avoid using a lot of memory and CPU Quicksilver doesn’t scan them all into the catalog. Instead the folders only scan to a configured depth. The default Home source is only indexed one level down and the default Documents source only 2 levels. These sources are not configurable themselves, but an editable copy can be made. In the info pane for the source, go to the attributes and click on the Create Copy button; this will make an editable copy of the source in the Custom section of the catalog. See the Catalog section for instructions on doing this. 

Do not just create copies of the sources that scan to infinite depth. This will probably cause Quicksilver to use a lot of memory and a large percentage of the CPU to scan the entire drive every few minutes. Instead only scan the folders that are really used. Don’t scan the Home folder more than one level down. `~/Library/` will probably just clog the Catalog with many unused items, and `~/Music/` and `~/Pictures/` are better scanned with the iTunes and iPhoto plugins.

Since Quicksilver doesn’t allow file exclusions to sources rearranging some files to move unused files out of a hierarchy might make the scanning more efficient. Another trick is to scan only folders deeply but not all the files, this allows easy access to the folders and then allows <kbd>→</kbd> to be used to navigate. I have a copy of my `~/Documents/` source set to scan 3 levels down (which finds 2000 files) and another source set to find only folders under `~/Documents/` set to scan 6 levels down (which finds 250 folders). If rearranging files is an option, it might help to arrange different folder hierarchies to be at the same level in an ancestor folder.

As of B51 Quicksilver has some incompatibilities with Apple’s FileVault. People have reported problems with using various features described below including the **Move to…** action, <kbd>⌘</kbd><kbd>G</kbd> to grab files from FileVault protected folders as well as using the File Tagging plugin. There isn’t a known solution so at this point Quicksilver and FileVault are incompatible for those functions.

## Basic File Actions

The default file action **Open**, opens a file in its default application; the same as double-clicking on the file’s icon. The default action for a folder is also **Open**, and just like double-clicking on its icon, it opens the folder in a Finder window. There are also other actions available. Use **Open With...** to open the file with a different application  specified in the third pane. The third pane will have a results list of applications to choose from (if it doesn’t, disable the TextMate Ranker plugin if it’s installed, it’s known to break **Open With…**). If the desired application is not there, navigate to it starting with <kbd>/</kbd> or <kbd>~</kbd> or by selecting the application in the Finder and using <kbd>⌘</kbd><kbd>G</kbd>. If the third pane is in text-mode, exit text mode by typing <kbd>⎋</kbd> and navigate to the desired application.

Another way to use **Open With…** is to select the file (or files) in the Finder, then activate Quicksilver and select the application to use in the first pane. Then instead of tabbing to the action pane, just type <kbd>⌥</kbd><kbd>⌘</kbd><kbd>G</kbd>. The command window will change so that the file is in the first pane, the action is **Open With…** and the application is in the third pane. It’s a little convoluted but it is quick.

The default action for a file object is **Open**. For scripts however this could be unclear, should they be opened in an editor or executed? Quicksilver solves this by having the **Open** action open them in an editor and having several **Run** actions. More about them in the section on the Terminal but as an example, the Extra Scripts plugin includes an Empty Trash script (in the Catalog under Modules, Scripts) to be used with the **Run** action.

It might be more common to use with an application, but the **Open at Login** action can also set a file to open automatically at login time. The item is added to the list in the Account System Preferences under the Login Items tab. All items listed in that pane are started at login, the checkbox only indicates if they are hidden when started. The **Do Not Open at Login** action removes something from the list. Both of these actions are disabled by default, enabled them in the Action preferences.

The **Reveal** action opens the containing folder and selects the item. This is a very easy way to find what folder an item is in, particularly when finding the item directly via the catalog instead of navigating down to it. I do this often to find applications (which are in my catalog) and might be in `/Applications` or `~/Applications` or a couple of levels down. In fact it’s so useful Quicksilver has a built-in key binding for it. With a file in the first pane and the action set to **Open** (it’s probably the default), typing <kbd>⌘</kbd><kbd>return</kbd> performs the **Reveal** action.

Quicksilver includes three methods that take a file and return a form of the file’s name. All return an absolute path on the machine to the file. **Get File Location** returns a mac-style path with colons. **Get FIle Path** returns a unix-style path with directories separated by slashes. **Get FIle URL** returns a `file://` URL to the file. The last two actions are disabled by default, enabled them in the Action preferences. All three actions show the path in a new command window. Use this to copy and paste a file’s path somewhere. The Terminal section describes using the **Go To Directory in Terminal** and **Go To Directory in iTerm** actions to open a terminal shell in the folder specified in the first pane as the current working directory.

The actions **Rename...**, **Copy to...**, and **Move to…** are very commonly used. For all of them, the third pane opens to enter the new name or location. Note that the **Move to…** action when used to move a file between drives internally does two actions, a copy and a delete of the original. In some cases, such as having read access but not write access to the file, it might behave like a copy, because it can’t delete the source file after the copy.

The <kbd>⌥</kbd><kbd>⌘</kbd><kbd>G</kbd> trick also works with the **Move to…** action. In the Finder select the file or files to move, activate Quicksilver and bring up the destination folder in the first pane. Then instead of tabbing to the action pane, just type <kbd>⌥</kbd><kbd>⌘</kbd><kbd>G</kbd>. The command window will change so that the files are in the first pane, the action is **Move to…** and the destination folder is the argument. Type return to execute the command. Mouse users might prefer to just drag the file from the Finder to the folder when it’s in the first pane.

Before 10.5 the Finder didn’t use Cocoa edit fields; I preferred renaming files with Quicksilver so I can use Cocoa editing keys (like <kbd>⌃</kbd><kbd>B</kbd> for back and <kbd>⌃</kbd><kbd>D</kbd> for delete). In fact I have a trigger for this using the proxy object Finder Selection and the **Rename…** action and a blank third pane. I have this bound to <kbd>⌃</kbd><kbd>⌘</kbd><kbd>R</kbd> and scoped to just function in the Finder. So I select a file with the mouse, type <kbd>⌃</kbd><kbd>⌘</kbd><kbd>R</kbd> and then can edit the name of the file and hit return. It’s just as fast as doing it solely in the Finder, but in a nice Cocoa text field.

Since moving something to the trash is so common, there’s an action called **Move to Trash**. There’s also a **Delete (Erase)** action which skips the trash and actually deletes the file. Since it’s not undoable it’s disabled by default, enable it in the Action Preference pane. 

The **Make Alias in…** action creates a macOS alias for a file in the folder specified in the third pane. The **Make Link in...** and **Make Hard Link in...** actions do the same for unix-style links for those that know the difference (since many don’t, they are disabled by default, enabled them in the Action preferences).

The **Make New…** action requires a little configuration. Create the folder `~/Library/Application Support/Quicksilver/Templates/`. Now put some template files in there. E.g., an empty `untitled.txt` file or a `Letter.doc` with a return address filled in or a `Letter.pages` with the return address created by Pages cleaned up (e.g., removing URLs and phone numbers). Now activate Quicksilver, select a folder as the object, the **Make New…** action, and in the third pane choose a template. Executing the command copies the template to the object folder and a new Quicksilver command window appears with the new file in the first pane and a default action (probably **Open**) which can be changed. It’s a bit like the Finder’s Stationery Pad functionality integrated into Quicksilver. Place folder hierarchies in the Templates folder and the **Make New…** action will create them; this is useful for creating new projects.

The **Get Info** action shows the Finder’s info panel for the object, just like selecting a file in the Finder and choosing the Get Info from the File menu or typing <kbd>⌘</kbd><kbd>I</kbd>. The File Attributes Actions plugin adds several actions that will modify information in the info panel. **Set Icon...** changes the file’s icon to one specified in the third pane. Spotlight users can add metadata to files with the **Set Comment...** action. This opens a third pane to enter text which will become the Spotlight comment (visible in the Get Info panel of the Finder). It doesn’t add to the comment but replaces whatever the current comment is with the new text. 

The **Set Label...** action opens a third pane to choose a color label. The **Lock File** and **Unlock File** actions do the obvious. The **Make Invisible (hide)** and **Make Visible (Show)...** actions change the visibility attribute of files. To find invisible files use the Finder’s Find command (<kbd>⌘</kbd><kbd>F</kbd>) and from the search attributes pop-up menu choose Other and then Visibility, then pick the desired value (Visible, Invisible, or either). The **Always Open Type With...** action (in the built-in Core Support plugin) will tell macOS to always open files of that type with the specified application, same as the Change All… button in the info panel. Unfortunately it doesn’t work in B52.

There are many file and folder actions, but realize they work with Quicksilver’s other capabilities. By using the comma trick (select an item in the object pane, type a comma, select another item, repeat) an action can be used on multiple files at once. E.g., move several files to the trash or a folder, upload them to a server, add a label or tag to several files, send multiple attachments in a single e-mail message, etc. 

See the Text Files sections for actions that modify the contents of a text files.

## File Tagging and Spotlight

The File Tagging Module plugin allows Quicksilver to edit and find metadata tags stored in Spotlight comments. Note that people have reported problems using this module if FileVault is enabled. This plugin adds five actions, a File Tags catalog source (under Modules) and a configuration preference pane. 

Tags are words stored in Spotlight comments, so they are searchable. To differentiate them from other comments they are prefixed with one (or more) characters. In version 71 of the plugin, the default Tag Prefix (@) confuses spotlight, consider changing it in the Tags preference pane to & which works well.

Three of the tag actions are used to modify tags on files: **Set Tags...**, **Add Tags...**, and **Remove Tags...**. All three actions take files or folders as objects and use a third pane to enter the tags via text mode. Tags are separated by spaces so they are single words. When entering them do not include the Tag Prefix; Quicksilver will add them. **Set Tags…** replaces all the tags and **Add Tags…** will append more tags leaving the current ones in place. Note that **Set Tags...** does not overwrite any existing Spotlight comments, but **Set Comment...** does overwrite any tags that are there.

There are several actions that can be used on tags themselves. There are two ways to bring up a tag in the first pane. To see all defined tags to bring up the the File Tags (Catalog) object in the first pane (it’s in the Catalog, in Quicksilver, Quicksilver Catalog Entries) and type <kbd>→</kbd> or use the **Show Contents** action (useful for a trigger). To see the tags assigned to just one file, bring up that file in the first pane and use the **Show Tags** action. Both techniques bring up a new command window with a results list of tags. 

With a tag in the first pane there are several available actions such as **Copy to Clipboard** and **Paste** but the default is **Show Files Matching Tag**. Since the tags are searched with Spotlight, this action opens a Spotlight Finder search window (like when editing a Finder smart folder) with all the files containing the tag. As an alternative, to get these results in a results list in Quicksilver, just type <kbd>→</kbd> on a tag in the first pane; after a little bit of time for a search a results list of all files with that tag will appear (though in B51 this doesn’t work in a Quicksilver session until the catalog is displayed).

The Spotlight Module plugin installs several actions for searching.  Most of these are described in the [Text](Text.md) section since they work on text entered in the first pane. There are 3 actions that work on folder objects. **Spotlight Contents in Finder…** runs the search in a Finder window. **Spotlight Contents...** and **Spotlight Filenames of Contents...** return their results into a new results list in Quicksilver.  All three prompt for the the string to search in the third pane. **Spotlight Filenames of Contents...** only searches filenames not the contents of files.

## File Compression and Disk Images

The File Compression Module plugin installs three additional file actions: **Decompress**, **Compress (Create Archive)**, and **Compress Using...**. The first works on an archive object (zip, cpio, or cpgz) and decompresses it; except in B51 it won’t appear as a valid action in the second pane, instead use the **Open** action which will also decompress the archive. The **Compress (Create Archive)** action will zip the object, creating a new zip archive in the same folder (the original item remains), and a new command window appears with the new zip archive as the object allowing additional actions such as **Move to...**, **E-mail To...** or whatever. The **Compress Using...** action opens a third pane to select a compression format to use such as tgz, cpio, cpgz, zip, or tbz. As of B51 it only works if called with a single file in the first pane. Executing the **Compress Using…** action in the zip format when using the comma trick or dragging multiple files into the first pane will result in an error and a ding sound.

The Disk Image Support plugin installs 3 actions. The **Create Disk Image** action works on a folder object (as of B51 it cannot have a period in its name) and creates the image with the same name as the folder (with a `.dmg` extension) in the same location as the folder. This might take a while to run unless the Run tasks in Background option  is checked in the Extras preferences.

The other two actions work on Disk Image objects (that is `.dmg` files). The **Compress Disk Image** action creates a new disk image in the same location with a .c.dmg extension. It’s supposed to use zlib compression but in my experiments the `.dmg` did not get significantly smaller, though it behaved the same as using the Disk Utility convert command to compress it. The oddly named **Internet-Enable Image** action will make the image be self-opening when downloaded.

## Sending Files

The E-mail Support plugin (installed by default) adds the three varieties of the **E-mail To…** action. They  all send files specified in the first pane as an e-mail attachment to a contact or address specified in the third pane.  For details on the differences between the **Compose**, **Send** and **Send Directly** varieties see the the [Mail](Mail.md) section below.  

The Chat Support plugin (installed by default) adds the **IM to Account…** action. In addition to sending text as an instant message, it can send a file specified in the first pane. Specify a contact or an IM address in the third pane. The reverse action, **IM Item…** also works with files. For details see the [Chat](Chat.md) section below.

Send a file to a printer with the **Open With…** action and then choose a printer as the argument in the third pane. The third pane is pre-populated with applications not printers but type <kbd>~</kbd> and navigate to `~/Library/Printers/` to select a printer. Since printers are in the catalog, the reverse action **Open File…**, is a little easier; it’s described in the [System](System.md) section.

## File Transfer Programs

Cyberduck is a free FTP client. With the Cyberduck Module plugin installed, bring up the Cyberduck application in the first pane and type <kbd>→</kbd> to see Cyberduck’s bookmarks. Use the **Open** action on a bookmark to bring up Cyberduck opened to that site. Cyberduck does not have to be running for <kbd>→</kbd> to work. 

Transmit is another popular FTP client. Install the Transmit 3 Module plugin to get similar access to Transmit’s favorites. Bring up Transmit in the first pane and type <kbd>→</kbd>  to see the Transmit favorites. The favorites are also listed in the catalog under Modules, Transmit Favorites, so they can be typed directly into the object pane. The favorites are stored as ftp URLs so using the **Open URL** action on one will open it in the default FTP client (which Transmit sets itself up as).

The plugin also adds the **Upload to Site…** action which works on a file object and takes a Transmit favorite as an argument in the third pane. 

When Transmit connects to a remote site, it allows items of that remote site to be placed into a sidebar. These remote sidebar items are available in Quicksilver by typing <kbd>→</kbd> into a favorite, even though there is no > in the results list to indicate this is possible. I can’t reliably make this work in B51.

TODO: The Interarchy Module plugin….

## Path Finder

Path Finder is a popular Finder alternative from Cocoatech. The Path Finder Module plugin allows Quicksilver to use it when appropriate. After installing the plugin, go to the Handler’s preference pane and under File System Browser choose Path Finder Module. This causes the **Open**, **Reveal** and **Get Info** actions to open in Path Finder. <kbd>⌘</kbd><kbd>G</kbd> will bring the Path Finder selection into the first or third pane. The plugin also installs under Module, Path Finder two catalog objects called Path Finder Recent Files and Path Finder Recent Folders. There is also a Path Finder proxy object to be used instead of the Finder Selection proxy object. 

## Deviant

The desktop is a folder in `~/Desktop/`. The Finder treats that folder specially and shows its contents on the screen all the time under other windows.  It’s very convenient to put active files and folders on, however it often gets crowded, particularly when multi-tasking on several projects.

The Deviant Module plugin installs a **Select Window** action that will swap out the desktop with different folders. Select a folder in the first pane and use the **Select Window** action; the Finder should be restarted with the folder as the new desktop. Possible uses of Deviant include keeping an empty folder around for clean screenshots or if working on a set of images for a document or presentation, keeping them all accessible on the desktop.

As of B51, it mostly works but not always; sometimes it quits the Finder but doesn’t restart it. In such cases people report that the Dock is still running and clicking on the Finder icon in the Dock will restart the Finder.
